# Representations of Health and Wellness on Instagram: An Analysis of Posting Behavior of Top-Ranked Health Influencers
This study aims to investigate the prevalence of Health Influencers’ Instagram content that could lead to negative impacts on mental health and body image. With the collected Instagram posts and associated metadata of top ranked Health Influencers, we performed content analysis on the most used hashtags, an unsupervised topic model to examine the semantic content and coverage of each theme discussed in the corpus, and an analysis on the audience engagement behavior by topics. Content analysis revealed posts composing of four broad themes: Fitness, Wellness, Self-Promotion, and Cosmetics and Appearance. In addition, well-known brands are prevalent among the hashtags suggesting product promotion is central to health content on Instagram. Topic modeling uncovered Health Influencers’ posts as a mixture of content related to health and wellness as well as other potentially problematic topics (e.g., promoting brands that have spread unhealthy body ideals or associating cosmetic products with being healthy, etc.). We also found promotional posts have higher user engagement rates than non-promotional ones, which in part due to the differential incentives of engagement, and bias in health beliefs or algorithms. Current research suggests a large portion of content produced by Health Influencers likely contain factors that induce body dissatisfaction and other related issues among Instagram users.

Bak, M., Priniski, & J.H., Chin, J. (2023). Representations of Health and Wellness on Instagram: An Analysis of Posting Behavior of Top-Ranked Health Influencers. In C. Stephanidis, M. Antona, S. Ntoa, & G. Salvendy (Eds.), <i>HCI International 2023 Posters</i> (pp. 10-20). Springer. https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-36001-5_2
